Q1. Explain in detail the area graphs and line graphs in tableau and how to create them with examples. (With the help of an example create one in tableau)
Ans- An area chart is a line chart where the area between the line and the axis are shaded with a color. These charts are typically used to represent accumulated totals over time and are the conventional way to display stacked lines.
      Line charts connect individual data points in a view. They provide a simple way to visualize a sequence of values and are useful when you want to see trends over time, or to forecast future values. 
     To create a view that displays the sum of sales and the sum of profit for all years, and then uses forecasting to determine a trend, follow these steps:
Connect to the Sample - Superstore data source.
Drag the Order Date dimension to Columns.
Tableau aggregates the date by year, and creates column headers.
Drag the Sales measure to Rows.
Tableau aggregates Sales as SUM and displays a simple line chart.
Drag the Profit measure to Rows and drop it to the right of the Sales measure.
Tableau creates separate axes along the left margin for Sales and Profit.
 





Q.2. What are the different steps in grouping fields and combining tables in tableau ? Explain with examples. (With the help of an example create one in tableau)
Ans-- In the view, select one or more data points and then, on the tooltip that appears, click the group icon .
Note: You can also select the group icon on the toolbar at the top of the workspace.
If there are multiple levels of detail in the view, you must select a level to group the members. You can select to group all dimensions, or just one.
The selected members are combined into a single group. A default name is created using the combined member names.
To rename the group, select it in the list and click Rename.
When you create groups in Tableau, you have the option to group all remaining, or non-grouped members in an Other group.
The Include Other option is useful for highlighting certain groups or comparing specific groups against everything else. For example, if have a view that shows sales versus profit product category, you might want to highlight the high and low performing categories in the view, and group all the other categories into an "Other" group.
Edit a Group::After you have created a grouped field, you can add and remove members from the groups, create new groups, change the default group names, and change the name of the grouped field. You can make some changes directly in the view, and others through the Edit Group dialog box.
To remove members from an existing group:
In the Data pane, right-click the group field, and then click Edit Group.
In the Edit Group dialog box, select one or more members, and then click Ungroup.
The members are removed from the current group. If you have an Other group, the members are added to it.
Click OK.
To create a new group in a group field:
In the Data pane, right-click the group field, and then click Edit Group.
In the Edit Group dialog box, select one or more members, and then click Group.
Click OK.
In general, there are four types of joins that you can use in Tableau: inner, left, right, and full outer. If you aren't sure what join type you want to use to combine data from multiple tables, you should use relationships.
Data blending is the process of combining data from multiple sources into a functioning dataset. This process is gaining attention among analysts and analytic companies because it is a quick and straightforward method used to extract value from multiple data sources. It can help to discover correlations between the different data sets without the time and expense of traditional data warehouse processes.



Q iii. What is the use of color and size options in the marks cart of tableau ? (With the help of anexample create one in tableau)?
Ans-The Color, Size, and Shape Marks Cards all allow you to “encode” the marks on a view. Encoding marks adds depth to an analysis by mapping marks to colors, sizes, and / or shapes to add context to a view. There are now three different legends corresponding with the encoding that was just added.
     Control color, size, shape, detail, text, and tooltips for marks in the view using the Marks card. Drag fields to buttons on the Marks card to encode the mark data. Click the buttons on the Marks card to open Mark properties. For related information on marks, 
Assign colors to marks:-
To assign a color to marks in the view, do one of the following:
On the Marks card, click Color, and then select a color from the menu.
This updates all marks in the view to the color you choose. All marks have a default color, even when there are no fields on Color on the Marks card. For most marks, blue is the default color; for text, black is the default color.
From the Data pane, drag a field to Color on the Marks card.
Tableau applies different colors to marks based on the field’s values and members. For example, if you drop a discrete field (a blue field), such as Category, on Color, the marks in the view are broken out by category, and each category is assigned a color
When you place a discrete field on Size on the Marks card, Tableau separates the marks according to the members in the dimension, and assigns a unique size to each member. Because size has an inherent order (small to big), categorical sizes work best for ordered data like years or quarters.
When you place a continuous field on Size on the Marks card, Tableau draws each mark with a different size using a continuous range. The smallest value is assigned the smallest sized mark and the largest value is represented by the largest mark.
When you add quantitative size encoding to the view, Tableau displays a legend showing the range of values over which sizes are assigned. You can modify how these sizes are distributed using the Edit Sizes dialog box


Q. iv. What are the different joins supported by tableau? (With the help of an example create one intableau)?
Ans - In general, there are four types of joins that you can use in Tableau: inner, left, right, and full outer. If you aren't sure what join type you want to use to combine data from multiple tables, you should use relationships.
Inner-When you use an inner join to combine tables, the result is a table that contains values that have matches in both tables.When a value doesn't match across both tables, it is dropped entirely.
Left- When you use a left join to combine tables, the result is a table that contains all values from the left table and corresponding matches from the right table.When a value in the left table doesn't have a corresponding match in the right table, you see a null value in the data grid.
Right- When you use a right join to combine tables, the result is a table that contains all values from the right table and corresponding matches from the left table.When a value in the right table doesn't have a corresponding match in the left table, you see a null value in the data grid.
Full outer- When you use a full outer join to combine tables, the result is a table that contains all values from both tables.When a value from either table doesn't have a match with the other table, you see a null value in the data grid.
Union- Though union is not a type of join, union is another method for combining two or more tables by appending rows of data from one table to another. Ideally, the tables that you union have the same number of fields, and those fields have matching names and data types. 


Q. v.Explain the steps to create dashboard in tableau with example (With the help of an example create one in tableau)?
Ans- A dashboard is a collection of several views, letting you compare a variety of data simultaneously. For example, if you have a set of views that you review every day, you can create a dashboard that displays all the views at once, rather than navigate to separate worksheets.
Step 1: Import the necessary data into Excel. No data. ...
Step 2: Set up your workbook. ...
Step 3: Add raw data to a table. ...
Step 4: Data analysis. ...
Step 5: Determine the visuals. ...
Step 6: Create your Excel dashboard. ...
Step 7: Customize your dashboard.
At the bottom of the workbook, click the New Dashboard icon:
At the bottom of the workbook, click the New Dashboard icon:
To replace a sheet, select it in the dashboard at right. In the Sheets list at left, hover over the replacement sheet, and click the Swap Sheets button.
Horizontal and Vertical objects provide layout containers that let you group related objects together and fine-tune how your dashboard resizes when users interact with them.
Text objects can provide headers, explanations, and other information.
Image objects add to the visual flavor of a dashboard, and you can link them to specific target URLs. (While Web Page objects can also be used for images, they are better for complete web pages. The Image object provides image-specific fitting, linking, and alt-text options.)
Web Page objects display target pages in the context of your dashboard. Be sure to review these web security options, and be aware that some web pages don't allow themselves to be embedded—Google is one example.
Blank objects help you adjust spacing between dashboard items.
Navigation objects let your audience navigate from one dashboard to another, or to other sheets or stories. You can display text or an image to indicate the button's destination to your users, specify custom border and background colors, and provide informational tooltips.
Download objects let your audience quickly create a PDF file, PowerPoint slide, or PNG image of an entire dashboard, or a crosstab of selected sheets. Formatting options are similar to Navigation objects.


Q. VI. Explain in detail the heatmaps and scatter plot and how to create them with example (With the help of an example create one in tableau)?
Ans- In Tableau, you create a highlight table by placing one or more dimensions on the Columns shelf and one or more
dimensions on the Rows shelf. You then select Square as the mark type and place a measure of interest on the Color shelf.
You can enhance this basic highlight table by setting the size and shape of the table cells to create a heat map.
To create a highlight table to explore how profit varies across regions, product sub-categories, and customer segments, follow these steps:
Connect to the Sample - Superstore data source.
Drag the Segment dimension to Columns.
Tableau creates headers with labels derived from the dimension member names.
Drag the Region and Sub-Category dimensions to Rows, dropping Sub-Category to the right of Region.
Now you have a nested table of categorical data (that is, the Sub-Category dimension is nested within the Region dimension).
Drag the Profit measure to Color on the Marks card.
Tableau aggregates the measure as a sum. The color legend reflects the continuous data range.
In this view, you can see data for only the Central region. Scroll down to see data for other regions.
In the Central region, copiers are shown to be the most profitable sub-category, and binders and appliances the least profitable.
Click Color on the Marks card to display configuration options. In the Border drop-down list, select a medium gray color for cell borders
The default color palette is Orange-Blue Diverging. A Red-Green Diverging palette might be more appropriate for profit. To change the color palette and to make the colors more distinct, do the following:
Hover over the SUM(Profit) color legend, then click the drop-down arrow that appears and select Edit Colors.
In the Edit Colors dialog box, in the Palette field, select Red-Green Diverging from the drop-down list.
Select the Use Full Color Range check box and click Apply and then click OK.
Scatterplot -- Use scatter plots to visualize relationships between numerical variables.
In Tableau, you create a scatter plot by placing at least one measure on the Columns shelf and at least one measure on the Rows shelf. If these shelves contain both dimensions and measures, Tableau places the measures as the innermost fields, which means that measures are always to the right of any dimensions that you have also placed on these shelves. The word "innermost" in this case refers to the table structure.
A scatter plot can use several mark types. By default, Tableau uses the shape mark type. Depending on your data, you might want to use another mark type, such as a circle or a square. For more information, see Change the Type of Mark in the View.
To use scatter plots and trend lines to compare sales to profit, follow these steps:
Open the Sample - Superstore data source.
Drag the Profit measure to Columns.
Tableau aggregates the measure as a sum and creates a horizontal axis.
Drag the Sales measure to Rows.
Tableau aggregates the measure as a sum and creates a vertical axis.
Measures can consist of continuous numerical data. When you plot one number against another, you are comparing two numbers; the resulting chart is analogous to a Cartesian chart, with x and y coordinates.
Now you have a one-mark scatter plot:
Drag the Category dimension to Color on the Marks card.
This separates the data into three marks—one for each dimension member—and encodes the marks using color.
Drag the Region dimension to Detail on the Marks card.
Now there are many more marks in the view. The number of marks is equal to the number of distinct regions in the data source multiplied by the number of departments. (If you're curious, use the Undo button on the toolbar to see what would have happened if you'd dropped the Region dimension on Shape instead of Detail.)
To add trend lines, from the Analytics pane, drag the Trend Line model to the view, and then drop it on the model type.
A trend line can provide a statistical definition of the relationship between two numerical values. To add trend lines to a view, both axes must contain a field that can be interpreted as a number—by definition, that is always the case with a scatter plot.

Q. vii. How to create table calculations in tableau with examples . (With the help of an example create one in tableau) ?
Ans -- A table calculation is a transformation you apply to the values in a visualization. Table calculations are a special type of calculated field that computes on the local data in Tableau. They are calculated based on what is currently in the visualization and do not consider any measures or dimensions that are filtered out of the visualization.
You can use table calculations for a variety of purposes, including:
Transforming values to rankings
Transforming values to show running totals
Transforming values to show percent of total
For any Tableau visualization, there is a virtual table that is determined by the dimensions in the view. This table is not the same as the tables in your data source. Specifically, the virtual table is determined by the dimensions within the “level of detail,” which means the dimensions on any of the following shelves or cards in a Tableau worksheet:
When you add a table calculation, you must use all dimensions in the level of detail either for partitioning (scoping) or for addressing (direction).
The dimensions that define how to group the calculation (the scope of data it is performed on) are called partitioning fields. The table calculation is performed separately within each partition.
The remaining dimensions, upon which the table calculation is performed, are called addressing fields, and determine the direction of the calculation.
Partitioning fields break the view up into multiple sub-views (or sub-tables), and then the table calculation is applied to the marks within each such partition. The direction in which the calculation moves (for example, in calculating a running sum, or computing the difference between values) is determined by the addressing fields. So when you order the fields in the Specific Dimensions section of the Table Calculation dialog box from top to bottom, you are specifying the direction in which the calculation moves through the various marks in the partition.
When you add a table calculation using the Compute Using options, Tableau identifies some dimensions as addressing and others as partitioning automatically, as a result of your selections. But when you use Specific Dimensions, then it’s up to you to determine which dimensions are for addressing and which for partitioning.
On the Marks card, right-click SUM(Sales) and select Add Table Calculation.
In the Table Calculation dialog box that opens, do the following:
For Calculation Type: select Difference From.
For more information about the types of table calculations you can use in Tableau, and how you can configure them, see Table Calculation Types.
For Compute Using, select Table (across).
For more information about these options, see The basics: addressing and partitioning section.
Note that as you select how to compute the calculation, the visualization updates with visual indicators to guide you.
When finished, click the X in the top corner of the Table Calculation dialog box to exit it.
The calculation is applied to the values in the visualization.
To edit a table calculation:
Right-click the measure in the view with the table calculation applied to it and select Edit Table Calculation.
In the Table Calculation dialog box that appears, make your changes.
When finished, click the X in the top corner of the Table Calculation dialog box to exit it.
To remove a table calculation:
Right-click the measure in the view with the table calculation applied to it and select Clear Table Calculation.
The table calculation is removed from the measure and the visualization updates with the original values.


Q.viii. Explain in detail the distribution bands in tableau and how to create them with example(With the help of an example create one in tableau)?
Ans-- You can add a reference line, band, distribution, or box plot to identify a specific value, region, or range on a continuous axis in a Tableau view. For example, if you are analyzing the monthly sales for several products, you can include a reference line at the average sales mark so you can see how each product performed against the average.
Tableau lets you add as many reference lines, bands, distributions, and box plots to a view as you require.
Types of Reference Lines, Bands, Distributions, and Boxes
You can add reference lines, bands, distributions, or (in Tableau Desktop but not on the web) box plots to any continuous axis in the view.
Reference Lines - You can add a reference line at a constant or computed value on the axis. Computed values can be based on a specified field. You can also include confidence intervals with a reference line.
Reference Bands - Reference bands shade an area behind the marks in the view between two constant or computed values on the axis.
Reference Distributions - Reference distributions add a gradient of shading to indicate the distribution of values along the axis. Distribution can be defined by percentages, percentiles, quantiles (as in the following image), or standard deviation.
Box Plots - Box plots (also known as box and whisker charts) are a standardized graphic for describing the distribution of values along an axis. Box plots show quartiles (also known as hinges) and whiskers. Tableau provides different box plot styles, and allows you to configure the location of the whiskers and other details.
Reference bands are shaded areas behind the marks in the view between two constant or computed values on the axis. You can add reference bands to any continuous axis in the view.
To add a reference band: Drag Reference Band from the Analytics pane into the view. Tableau shows the possible destinations. The range of choices varies depending on the type of item and the current view.


Q. Ix. Explain the steps to create bar chart and pie diagram in tableau with example (With the help of an example create one in tableau)?
Ans-- Use bar charts to compare data across categories. You create a bar chart by placing a dimension on the Rows shelf and a measure on the Columns shelf, or vice versa.
A bar chart uses the Bar mark type. Tableau selects this mark type when the data view matches one of the two field arrangements shown below. You can add additional fields to these shelves.
To create a bar chart that displays total sales over a four-year period, follow these steps:
Connect to the Sample - Superstore data source.
Drag the Order Date dimension to Columns and drag the Sales measure to Rows.
On the Marks card, select Bar from the drop-down list.
Drag the Ship Mode dimension to Color on the Marks card.
Drag the Region dimension to Rows, and drop it to the left of Sales to produce multiple axes for sales by region.
To view data in the West region only, you can filter out the other regions. To do this, drag the Region dimension again, this time from the Data pane to the Filters shelf.
In the Filter [Region] dialog box, clear the Central, East, and South check boxes, and then click OK.
Use pie charts to show proportions of a whole.
The basic building blocks for a pie chart are as follows:
Connect to the Sample - Superstore data source.
Drag the Sales measure to Columns and drag the Sub-Category dimension to Rows.
Click Show Me on the toolbar, then select the pie chart type. Pie charts require at least one or more dimensions and one or two measures. Aggregate fields, such as Profit Ratio, don't contribute to those requirements.
Add labels by dragging the Sub-Category dimension from the Data pane to Label on the Marks card.
If you don't see labels, press Ctrl + Shift + B (press ñ + z + B on a Mac) to make sure most of the individual labels are visible.


Q. x. How to add story points on the dashboard (With the help of an example create one in tableau)?
Ans- Use stories to make your case more compelling by showing how facts are connected, and how decisions relate to outcomes. You can then publish your story to the web, or present it to an audience.
Each story point can be based on a different view or dashboard, or the entire story can be based on the same visualization seen at different stages, with different filters and annotations.
Click the New Story tab.
In the lower-left corner of the screen, choose a size for your story. Choose from one of the predefined sizes, or set a custom size, in pixels:
By default, your story gets its title from the sheet name. To edit it, right-click the sheet tab, and choose Rename Sheet.If you're using Tableau Desktop, you can also rename a story by double-clicking the title.
To start building your story, double-click a sheet on the left to add it to a story point.In Tableau Desktop, you can also drag sheets into your story point.
Click Add a caption to summarize the story point.
To further highlight the main idea of this story point, you can change a filter or sort on a field in the view. Then save your changes by clicking Update on the story toolbar above the navigator box:
Add another story point by doing one of the following:
Click Blank to use a fresh sheet for the next story point.
Start customizing a story point and click Save as New on the toolbar above the navigator box.
Click Duplicate to use the current story point as the basis for a new one.
You can refine the look of your story using the options on the Layout tab.
Click the Layout tab.
Choose a navigator style that best suits your story, and show or hide the next and previous arrows.
Sometimes the text in one or more of your captions is too long to fit inside the height of the navigator. In this case, you can re-size the captions vertically and horizontally.
In the navigator, select a caption.
Drag the border left or right to resize the caption horizontally, down to resize vertically, or select a corner and drag diagonally to resize the caption both horizontally and vertically.
All captions in the navigator update to the new size.
To open the Format Story pane, select Format > Story.
Fit a dashboard to a story
You can fit a dashboard to the exact size of a story. For example, if your story is exactly 800 by 600 pixels, you can shrink or expand a dashboard to fit inside that space.
Click the Size drop-down menu and select the story you want the dashboard to fit inside.
Present your story
In Tableau Desktop, click the Presentation Mode button  on the toolbar. Or, publish the story to Tableau Cloud or Tableau Server, and click the Full Screen button in the upper-right corner of the browser.
To step through your story, click the arrow to the right of the story points. Or, in Tableau Desktop, use the arrow keys on your keyboard.
To exit Presentation or Full Screen mode, press Esc.































































































